---
title: Async compilation
---
# Async compilation

::: entry

Now project consists of 2 source files (`utils.c` and `main.c`) and one header (`utils.h`). Buildscript rebuilds both source files in parallel.

This example is little more complex. It uses asynchronous compilation. [`cbuild_cmd_run`](/doc/symbols.html#ID_cbuild_cmd_run) now is called with one additional argument - `.procs = &procs`{.c}. This style of call can be seen as really strange in C, because language does not support named arguments at its core, but [`cbuild_cmd_run`](/doc/symbols.html#ID_cbuild_cmd_run) is not a function, but a macro, and underlying function takes just two arguments - command and configuration structure. Macro puts all arguments starting from second as inside struct declaration, so designated initializers can be used as named arguments. Returning to example's code - second argument contains pointer to [`cbuild_proclist_t`](/doc/symbols.html#ID_cbuild_proclist_t). Then [`cbuild_procs_wait`](/doc/symbols.html#ID_cbuild_procs_wait) is used as a synchronization point to wait for all jobs to finish. Linking is done in normal, synchronous way. Interactions here are a lot more complex that one may think at first sight, these function calls do not simply run new process and append its *PID* to array of *PID*s. Instead, [`cbuild_cmd_run`](/doc/symbols.html#ID_cbuild_cmd_run) implements something that can be called *process pool*. It can take another argument `.async_threads = <int>`, which specify maximum number of processes that can be simultaneously executed. If its value is `0` then implementation-default behaviors is used. For now, it is a number of CPU cores minus 1. Then function checks if new process can be spawned and if not, it blocks until some process from `procs` array exits. Only then new process will be spawned and added to list of processes. On this example this behavior may seem pointless, but when number of files waiting for compilation increases, it allows minimizing scheduling penalties for compilation processes while maintaining responsiveness from OS.

:::

::: entry

### Code

Directory structure:
```{.tree dir=examples/build/2.async}
```

App's source code.

`main.c`
```{.c .lineNumbers file=examples/build/2.async/src/main.c}
```

`utils.h`
```{.c .linenumbers file=examples/build/2.async/src/utils.h}
```

`utils.c`
```{.c .linenumbers file=examples/build/2.async/src/utils.c}
```

`cbuild.c` - Your buildscript:
```{.c .linenumbers file=examples/build/2.async/cbuild.c}
```

`cbuild.h` - Build system core.

:::
::: entry

### How to run

```bash
cc -o cbuild.run cbuild.c
./cbuild.run
./app.run
```

:::