---
title: Compiling directory of C files
---
# Compiling directory of C files

::: entry

Here project also consists of 2 source files (`utils.c` and `main.c`) and one header (`utils.h`). Buildscript rebuilds both source files in parallel and also caches objects that do not need to be changed.

This example is much more complex. It automatically detects all files that have `.c` extension and are placed somewhere in directory tree starting from `src`.

Code inside of function `main` is much simpler now. It prepares `link_cmd` variable, then walks the directory tree, then waits for all processes, then runs link command and then cleans all allocated memory.

Function `walker` is much more interesting - this is where all magic happens. This function will be called for each file and directory by [`cbuild_dir_walk`](/doc/symbols.html#ID_cbuild_dir_walk). This function consists of 4 parts - preparation, generation of output path, check and command call.

- **Preparation**: This part constructs string view out of `args.path` and then checks if suffix is `.c`, so this filters-out files that are not C source files.
- **Output path generation**: This part appends `.o` to source path and then replaces all slashes with dots. This will allocate from CBuild's temporary allocator (arena), and it does this in loop, but such loops will be quite small and that arena has size of 8M, so cleaning it on each iteration is not that important.
- **Check**: This part consists of call to [`cbuild_compare_mtime`](/doc/symbols.html#ID_cbuild_compare_mtime) and 3 `if` checks. If this function returns `0` it means that output file is newer than input one. If it returns something lower than `0` it means that error has happened. If it returns value greater than `0` it means that input is newer than output, so recompilation is needed.
- **Command call**: If previous check decided that recompilation is needed it runs new command and appends to `procs` array, same as previous example.

Object files to linker command is appended by `walker` function, because their paths are known only there. This is also a reason why temporary allocator can not be cleaned during loop execution.


:::

::: entry

### Code

Directory structure:
```{.tree dir=examples/build/4.dir}
```

App's source code.

`main.c`
```{.c .lineNumbers file=examples/build/4.dir/src/main.c}
```

`utils.h`
```{.c .linenumbers file=examples/build/4.dir/src/utils.h}
```

`utils.c`
```{.c .linenumbers file=examples/build/4.dir/src/utils.c}
```

`cbuild.c` - Your buildscript:
```{.c .linenumbers file=examples/build/4.dir/cbuild.c}
```

`cbuild.h` - Build system core.

:::

::: entry

### How to run

```bash
cc -o cbuild.run cbuild.c
./cbuild.run
./app.run
```

:::