---
title: Flag parse spec
---
# Spec for parser flag definitions

## General format

::: entry

Flag definition consists of a list of blocks. Blocks are separated by block separator - `\t`, except first one. There are no separator before first block and after last block.

This are defined blocks (in order):

* Option identifier (will be used as a long flag option).
* Short option name (optional).
* Metadata block. Described in [Metadata](#metadata) section.
* Description (in theory optional, code does not check its length).

First separator (after ID) could be one of theese:

* `\t` - This will be flag with long and short variants
* `\n` - This will be a flag with long option only. Short option block should be ommited.

Also, flag definition could be used to specify command to parser internals. This commands start from `-` character.

List of commands:

* `separator` -> Using this will push `--` separator (if found) into a list of positional arguments. By defulat it is not pushed into that list.

:::

## Metadata

::: entry

This block consistsi of `key=value` pairs. They are separated by metadata pair separator - `;`. Last pair is terminated by ablock separator. For any ommited key default value will be used. This section could be left empty in any flag type except *positional argument*.

Supported keys:

* [arg]{.red} - Specifies type of argument expected for this flag or type of positional argument. Default value is **no argument**. `?` could be used at the end of arument type to mark arguments as optional. Allowed arguments:
    - [arg]{.green} - Single argument expected
    - [list]{.green} - List of arguments expected. List will terminate on first word starting from `-` or for positonal arguments - **never**.
    - [tlist]{.green} - Terminated list. List will terminate only on terminator symbol.
* [len]{.red} - Set expected number of arguments for *list* and *tlist* argument types. ***0*** indicates any number of arguments.
* [thint]{.red} - Type hint. Optional string. Will be shown to user in help message.
* [tdelim]{.red} - Delimeter character for a *tlist* argument type.

:::
s
## Limitations

::: entry

*[TList]{.green}* delimeter could be 1 character only.

*[TList]{.green}* and *[List]{.green}* maximum expected length could only be 255. More arguments could be parsed, but only on ***0*** expected length of a list (value provided by a user in metadata is truncated to a byte).

:::

## Examples

::: entry

::: note
Any special symbols are written as C string escape sequences.
:::

Define an option that does not take any aruments:

```
arg\a\t\tSimple flag with long and short variants and without arguments.
```

Define an option that takes one argument (integer):

```
arg\ta\targ=arg;thint=integer\tFlag with long and short variants that takes one argument.
```

Define a long option that can take a list with 4 elements (file paths):

```
arg\narg=list;len=4;thint=file\tFlag with long option only that take list with 4 elements.
```

Make library push `--` to a list of long options:

```
-separator
```

:::